
## The nature of abstraction

Abstraction is one of the most important principles in Computer Science and its a critical part of computational thinking.

Its the process of **removing excessive details** to arrive at a representation of  a problem that consists of only the **key features**. ^7aed7c

Abstraction often involves analyzing **what is relevant** to a given scenario and simplifying a problem based on this information.

Another form of abstraction involves grouping together similarities within a problem to find out what type of problem it is. --> this is abstraction by generalization
``
Data abstraction is a subcategory of abstraction in which details about how data is being stored is hidden. --> this allows for programmers to create abstract data structures such as stacks and ques without caring about how these structures are implemented. Programmers also perform functions as as pushing and popping items to and from the a stack **without having any knowledge about  the code used to implement this functionality**. --> This Procedural Abstraction (and my favorite one)

The high levels of abstraction are closest to the user and normally handle the interface for the user to interact with the hardware while the lowest level of abstraction are responsible  for performing these task through the execution of machine code.

## The need for abstraction

At its core, abstraction allows non-experts to make use of a range of systems and models by hiding information that is too complex or irrelevant to the system's purpose.

Abstraction enable for **more efficient design** during software development as programmers can focus on elements that need to be built into the software rather than worrying about unneeded details.

Removing wasteful details. This then reduces the time needed to spent on the project. This also helps the prevent the project getting unnecessarily large.

Layers of abstraction are used within **networking** and programming languages. Programming Languages can be separated out into a spectrum of high and low-level languages. 


The TCP/IP model is an abstraction for how networks function, separated  into four layers of abstraction: application,  transport, internet and link. Each layer deals with a different part of the communication process, and separating  this stages out makes it easier to understand.


## The Difference between abstraction and reality.

Abstraction is a simplified representation of reality. Real-world entries may be represented using computation structures such as tables and databases. Real world vales are stored in variables.


Object-Oriented Programming makes use of objects, which are also an **abstraction for real world entitles**.  [1.2.4 - Types of Programming Languages](</Computer Sci/Unit 1/1.2.4 - Types of Programming Languages.md>) --> See here for more on OOP

In OOP abstraction only cares abut the **functionality, interface and properties of entities**.
